Update odo delete component doc (#5582)
redhat-developer/odo: docs/website/versioned_docs/version-3.0.0/command-reference/delete.md

---
title: odo delete component
sidebar_position: 4
---

> `odo delete component` command is useful for deleting resources that are managed by odo. It deletes the component and it's related innerloop and outerloop resources from the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`odo delete component` command is useful for deleting resources that are managed by odo. It deletes the component and its related innerloop and outerloop resources from the cluster.
```

> There are 2 ways to deleting a component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are 2 ways to delete a component:
```

> 1. [Delete with access to Devfile](#Delete-with-access-to-Devfile)
> 2. [Delete without access to Devfile](#Delete-without-access-to-Devfile)

Author: ```suggestion
1. [Delete with access to Devfile](#delete-with-access-to-devfile)
2. [Delete without access to Devfile](#delete-without-access-to-devfile)
```

> 1. [Delete with access to Devfile](/#Delete with access to Devfile)
> 2. [Delete without access to Devfile](/#Delete without access to Devfile)

Reviewer: This doesn't render correctly (look at the screenshot at the bottom after the suggestion). Should you remove the `/`?
```suggestion
1. [Delete with access to Devfile](#Delete with access to Devfile)
2. [Delete without access to Devfile](#Delete without access to Devfile)
```
----
Screenshot:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/713521/159653871-6c923a68-5d9f-4f93-ba9a-027857f9ae25.png)

Author: That still doesn't work. I had your suggestion earlier on, and it showed them the way it does in your screenshot.

Reviewer: Maybe try (check both case-sensitive and case-insensitive):
```md
[Delete without access to Devfile](#Delete-without-access-to-Devfile)
```

Author: ```suggestion
1. [Delete with access to Devfile](#delete-with-access-to-devfile)
2. [Delete without access to Devfile](#delete-without-access-to-devfile)
```

## Delete with access to Devfile
```shell
odo delete component
```
odo analyzes the devfile for the devfile component and the outerloop resources.
If the component has been deployed on the cluster, then odo will list all the resources and prompt the user to confirm the deletion.

> Otherwise, odo will exit with a message stating that it could not find the resources on the cluster.

Reviewer: * It's worth mentioning here that one needs to `cd` into a component directory for this command to work successfully. If they don't have a component directory for any reason, they could look at the section about deletion without access to devfile.
* > odo analyzes the devfile for the devfile component

  IMO, it's an odo component, not a devfile component

> _Note:_ odo does not delete the Devfile, and config files.

Reviewer: Please use the [note admonition](https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/admonitions). You are italicizing it, someone else might make it bold, a third one could make it both bold & italicized, so on and so forth.

Reviewer: > odo does not delete the Devfile, and config files.

Also, which config files are talking about here? The ones under `.odo` directory? And, IMO, it's grammatically incorrect. It could be:

> odo does not delete the Devfile, code or the config files.

## Delete without access to Devfile
```shell

> odo delete component --name <component_name> --namespace <namespace>

Reviewer: In this command, `--namespace` is an optional flag. Please explain so. Looks like we have done that well in the CLI docs.

```

> odo builds a label from the component name to search for the component on the cluster in the given namespace, and deletes it along with all it's related resources.

Reviewer: Do we need to share these details to a regular odo user? No, IMO. What we do need to cover in this and the section on deletion with devfile is that one command deletes only the resources it sees in devfile, while the other deletes all the resources based on the name of the component.

@kadel I think you agreed that `odo delete component --name <name>` is not a good way to differentiate between deletion with and without a devfile. Seems like it's already gone in. And, unfortunately, it was me who approved that PR (#5574).

Author: > odo delete component --name <name> is not a good way to differentiate between deletion with and without a devfile. Seems like it's already gone in. And, unfortunately, it was me who approved that PR (https://github.com/redhat-developer/odo/pull/5574).

This was established way before the cleanup PR went in.

Reviewer 2: > @kadel I think you agreed that odo delete component --name <name> is not a good way to differentiate between deletion with and without a devfile. Seems like it's already gone in. And, unfortunately, it was me who approved that PR (https://github.com/redhat-developer/odo/pull/5574).

This is in now, at some point we all agreed on this approach.  We don't have a consensus on an alternative. So, for now, --name it is. We still can change it before the final v3 but it should e discussed in a separate issue.

Reviewer 2: > Do we need to share these details to a regular odo user? No, IMO. What we do need to cover in this and the section on deletion with devfile is that one command deletes only the resources it sees in devfile, while the other deletes all the resources based on the name of the component.

Normal user probably don't need to know that, but I like the fact that this is mentioned in the docs.

If it finds the component, then it will list all the resources and prompt the user to confirm the deletion.
Otherwise, it will exit with a message stating that it could not find the resources on the cluster.

> **_Note:_** In the both the cases, odo does not wait for resources to be deleted.

Reviewer: Use note admonition as suggested earlier. 😉

---
title: odo delete component
sidebar_position: 4
---

`odo delete component` command is useful for deleting resources that are managed by `odo`. It deletes the component and its related innerloop and outerloop resources from the cluster.

There are 2 ways to delete a component:
1. [Delete with access to Devfile](#delete-with-access-to-devfile)
2. [Delete without access to Devfile](#delete-without-access-to-devfile)

## Delete with access to Devfile
```shell
odo delete component
```

> `odo` analyzes the Devfile _present in the current directory_ for the component and the outerloop resources.

Reviewer: Why are we emphasizing `present in the current directory`? Such emphasis makes sense in a blog, but do we really need them in docs? 

I believe that it's a very subjective thing and different people could have different views about this. But as far as docs are concerned, we should try to use a uniform language and approach. If we want to highlight something, we should first ask ourselves if there's an admonition that could be used. If not, we must define what different levels of emphasis mean. In the sense, what should be put in bold, what should be italicized, what should be underlined, or when should we use a combination of two or all of these.

This is more of an open conversation than a review to change something. I'm simply sharing my thoughts.

Author: Okay, that makes sense.
So, the reason I emphasized it here is because the section title says `Delete with access to devfile`, this could mean to 2 things - 1) Devfile is accessible because it is present in the current directory, 2) Devfile is accessible through something like `--context`.
Even though odo no longer supports --context, given it's history, I thought it made sense to emphasize the first part about it being present in the current directory.
I am not sure if  adding admonition here would make sense because I would like to highlight it in the sentence itself.

---
title: odo delete component
sidebar_position: 4
---

`odo delete component` command is useful for deleting resources that are managed by odo. It deletes the component and its related innerloop and outerloop resources from the cluster.

There are 2 ways to delete a component:
1. [Delete with access to Devfile](#delete-with-access-to-devfile)
2. [Delete without access to Devfile](#delete-without-access-to-devfile)

## Delete with access to Devfile
```shell
odo delete component
```
odo analyzes the Devfile _present in the current directory_ for the component and the outerloop resources.

> If the component has been deployed on the cluster, then odo will list all the resources and prompt the user to confirm the deletion.

Reviewer 3: make sure that any references to odo you try and use `odo`. it's a pain, but we've got to try and reference `odo` like that in sentences.

Otherwise, odo will exit with a message stating that it could not find the resources on the cluster.

:::info
odo does not delete the Devfile, the odo configuration files, or the source code.

## Delete without access to Devfile
```shell
odo delete component --name <component_name> --namespace <namespace>
```

> odo builds a label from the component name to search for the component on the cluster in the given namespace, and deletes it along with all its related resources.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
odo builds a label from the component name to search for the component on the cluster in the given namespace, and deletes it along with all related resources.
```

If odo finds the component, then it will list all the resources and prompt the user to confirm the deletion.
Otherwise, odo will exit with a message stating that it could not find the resources on the cluster.

> The `--namespace` is optional, if not provided, odo will use the current active namespace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`--namespace` is optional, if not provided, odo will use the current active namespace.
```

:::caution

> In the both the cases, odo does not wait for resources to be deleted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In both cases, `odo` does not wait for resources to be deleted.
```

## Available Flags

> * `-f`, `--force` - Use this flag to avoid the user prompt.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `-f`, `--force` - Use this flag to avoid being prompted for confirmation.
```

> * `--name` - Name of the component to delete, optional. By default, the component described in the local devfile is deleted

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `--name` - Name of the component to delete (optiona). By default, the component described in the local devfile is deleted
```

> * `--namespace` - Namespace in which to find the component to delete, optional. By default, the current namespace defined in kubeconfig is used

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `--namespace` - Namespace to find the component to delete (optional). By default, the current namespace defined in kubeconfig is used
```
